---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/digital-garden/purpose-of-a-shared-garden/"}
---


The first beneficiary of this garden was myself. If you wish to understand how I beneficiate from this work, you need to understand my psyche's hierarchy of preferences, when it comes to observing and judging the world : 
1. What I desire
2. What I value
3. What I know
4. What I'm doing
I am aware that I desire to cultivate the gardens of typing skills and quality of life, and desire to do so by sailing through the chaos of potentials and beliefs, catching the engulfed treasures on the way, reshaping and reassembling them to form different kinds of treasures. In other words I see life through the spyglasses of a pirate. I desire and esteem stuff, mainly. 
But what do I see ? Most of the time, merely a map, for until the end my treasure remains out of sight, whereas for the dream to keep on living, I must keep seing it in every way available, which is where representation comes very handy. Reality may rightly feel disrespected if not jealous, for I prefer my fantasies to the dull, slow, shallow, mediocre, purposeless stream of life that dare present itself to me without its jewelry. So most of the time, I am what you might call a purposeful airhead.  
This preference comes with many downsides. My innatentiveness causes many mistakes, many inadequacies with the world as it is, and many negative consequences which cause me to become undesirable, which cause the range of my possibilities to shrink. Everything being connected in a cycle, my dreams end up decaying out of lack of freedom and perceived possibilities, which turn conscious through experience.  
One preference is both the ennemy and the ally of other preferences. 
Experience is the ennemy for it slows you down. It makes you also less reactive to reality, because then you start relying on memories and then you start expecting things. It makes you think you have a right to comfort, because you have refined your ability to find it through experiences. And isn't comfort the purpose of existence, the sensible sign that you have imposed your order, your vital strength, on reality ? You wouldn't be wrong. But comfort is also death, for comfort is the death of movement, and movement is the nature of life. I prefer life at the cost of everlasting order. 

Since I prefer freedom of movement, it is not in my interest to carry the weight of all this reality with me. I would rather travel lightly, forgetfully, never expecting anything, standing ready to take advantage of whatever new reality comes before me to fulfill my dreams. Thus I can travel faster than most, and thus my dreams are less likely to decay in the efforts required to endure all that is real. 

Lightning travel is lonely travel. If you don't take the time to pay attention, neither do you to take others with you. Sad or joy, it is a reality that your desires and your steps can only ever be your own only, so why bother ? 
But if on my way I encounter no matter and blaze through nothingness, I may as well be dead. If I am seen nore by myself nore by others, I may as well not exist. Life travel must of course run into walls to deserve itself. If at lightning speed, it will tear some down, while some will tear me down (when slower explorers will be more naturally skilled at discovery without obliteration, bless them). You can expect your walls to be torn down by my words, for I respect light more than matter, and quests more than castles. 
I fear suffering less than I fear death of hope. So I also fear consequences more than I fear suffering. And that which I fear most is failure, for it is the embodiment of hopelesness. Failure is not a reality but a perspective, the perspective of lost hope. Experiencing failure is like experiencing the cutting of a limb, except that limb is imaginative. The success was part of your fantacized identity, worth and purpose. Now there is no hope unless I make a new one, refined with the wisdom of experience. But how to learn from experiences to which you haven't been paying attention, towards which you feel only hatred, shame and despair ? 

This garden provides an answer to this problem. Or at least, a support. Like everyone, there are some things I must externalize and let exist outside of me, so I can use them as stick, chariot, ship or wings to keep on traveling forward, not circling around like a goldfish in a bowl. The concrete objects of my past, present and future desires, which usually dwell too deep in my mental undergrounds to be accessible, shall exist outside of me. My hatred, shame and despair will not be able to tear down the past, for it will exist outside of their realm. And part of it I shall share with others, since it became possible through externalization, and to apologize in advance or with delay for traveling to your homes so lightly. 

I will confess that I hope to cultivate others such that they also become part of my externalized memory. If I exist in other's reality, then I can feel reassured that I am not merely a fantasy of my own. 

It is not so different regarding my knowledge. Eternally critical towards it, I would rather know nothing than rest assured on a bed of lies which will cause my life to be mediocre at best and a failure at worse. At least by knowing nothing remains the hope that I will one day know something. In the meantime though, I cannot simply believe in nothing. Nihilism is as good as death. So I have to invest in some thoughts and ideas, which sometimes will be of my craft, but more often will have been crafted by someone else. You see I prefer letting others do the work, because then I can cherry pick in such a way that I do not harm myself and cause turmoil in my harmonious inner world. I behave protectively of my worth like others behave protectively of their comfort. 
Without my sense of worth, I would be something like a boat following an eternally spinning compass needle. Something in me tells me which direction is important to follow, and this sense of importance is fed by the beliefs I invest in, because they feel important, in such a cycle whose begining remains mysterious, but whose purpose is to create or nurture value and quality. It is of such importance to me to protect quality, that I hinder my abilities to produce it with awareness of true and false. Unaware of what is dear to them, the logos travelers cut unscrupulously the parts that do not make logical sense, and most of the time they do it rightfully so, for lies and falsehood usually end up causing destruction of value. Whereas often what appears valuable is enough to me, for it gives me what is most precious to human life, which is the sense of value itself. By putting on the lenses of truth, I may see that the object of worship is not as useful, as valuable as it feels, and thus goes the most important thing in the story, which is the feeling itself. What drives me to seek not only the feeling but the actual consistency of the felt object, are the consequences of my delusions, which may cause failure, hopelessness and loss of self-worth. But more often than not, I am grateful to those who do the work for me, especially the most skilled swordsmen out there who are able to cut out the crap so clean that my sense of worth doesn't get unnecessarily drained, but actually gets enhanced by consistent, refined quality. 

Hopefully you see now that all preferences influence each other, and that it is impossible to cultivate one garden without cultivating the others. But you see also how difficult it is to cultivate them all by ourselves and in our heads. Other humans are obstacles or burdens on a lightning speed travel, but no human travel can actually be made at lightning speed. Generation of value is dependant not on speed but on mating, and mating can only be made at a speed that supports mass. Lightning speed is good for dreams.  